Add documentation for segment replication GA release (#3461)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/segment-replication/index.md

# Segment replication

With segment replication, segment files are copied across shards instead of documents being indexed on each shard copy. This improves indexing throughput and lowers resource utilization at the expense of increased network utilization.

> This is the first step in a series of features designed to decouple reads and writes in order to lower compute costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the first feature in a series of features designed to decouple reads and writes in order to lower compute costs.
```

## Use cases

- Users who have high write loads but do not have high search requirements and are comfortable with longer refresh times.
- Users with very high loads who want to add new nodes, as you do not need to index all nodes when adding a new node to the cluster.

> - Compared to document replication, segment replication performs better in OpenSearch cluster deployments with low replica counts, such as those used for log analytics.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a link to document replication or is this a content gap? Can't seem to find anything on the site.

> - Compared to document replication, segment replication performs better in OpenSearch cluster deployments with low replica counts, such as those used for log analytics.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a link to document replication or is this a gap? How is document and segment replication from [cross-cluster replication](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/replication-plugin/getting-started/#start-replication)?

## Segment replication configuration

> To set the replication strategy to segment replication, create an index with replication.type set to `SEGMENT`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set segment replication as the replication strategy, create an index with replication.type set to `SEGMENT`:
```

> To set the replication strategy to segment replication, create an index with replication.type set to `SEGMENT`:

Reviewer: Reworded slightly for clarity.

````json
PUT /my-index1
{
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "replication.type": "SEGMENT" 
    }
  }
}
````

> ## Segment vs document replication benchmarks

Author: yeah I think that works fine

> ## Segment vs document replication benchmarks

Author: ```suggestion
## Comparing replication benchmarks
```

> ## Benchmarking

Reviewer 2: More of a suggestion than a note, but I would be more specific with the header here. Something like:

```suggestion
## Segment vs document replication benchmarks
```

> During experimental testing, our experimental release users reported up to 40% higher throughput with segment replication than with document replication for the same cluster setup.

Reviewer 2: Can we validate the 40% call out and what users were working with the experimental release A blog? I think calling out the experimental release leads me to more questions versus just sharing the 40% increase.

```suggestion
During initial benchmarks, segment replication user reported 40% higher throughput with than with document replication for the same cluster setup.
```

        <td>3%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p100</td>
        <td>71.00</td>
        <td>69.00</td>
        <td>-3%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="4">IOPS</td>
        <td>p50</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p90</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p99</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p100</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td rowspan="4">Latency</td>
        <td>p50</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p90</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p99</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>p100</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
</table>

**Note** : Your results may vary based on the cluster topology, hardware used, shard count, and merge settings. 

Your results may vary based on cluster topology, hardware used, shard count, and merge settings. 
{: .note }

> ## Further resources regarding segment replication

Reviewer 2: I would make this the final section and rename the title, "Next steps," so remain consistent with how we call out related information on other pages.

1. Track [future enhancements on segment replication](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/99).
2. [Segment replication blog post](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/1504/files).

> ## Other considerations

Reviewer 2: We should introduce this section. 

"When using segment replication, consider the following best practices:"

1. Integration with remote-backed storage as the source of replication is [currently unsupported](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/4448). 
1. Read-after-write guarantees: The `wait_until` refresh policy is not compatible with segment replication. If you use the `wait_until` refresh policy while ingesting documents, you'll get a response only after the primary node has refreshed and made those documents searchable. Replica shards will respond only after having written to their local translog. We are exploring other mechanisms for providing read-after-write guarantees. For more information, see the corresponding [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/6046).  
1. System indexes will continue to use document replication internally until read-after-write guarantees are available. In this case, document replication does not hinder the overall performance because there are few system indexes.

## Next steps

1. Track [future enhancements on segment replication](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/99).

> 1. [Segment replication blog post](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/1504/files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Read [this blog post about segment replication](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/1504/files).
```

> 1. [Segment replication blog post](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/1504/files).

Reviewer: Is this the correct link?

Author: no, it will be updated once the blog goes live

# Segment replication

With segment replication, segment files are copied across shards instead of documents being indexed on each shard copy. This improves indexing throughput and lowers resource utilization at the expense of increased network utilization.

When the primary shard sends a checkpoint to replica shards on a refresh, a new segment replication event is triggered on replica shards. This happens when:

- A new replica shard is added to a cluster.
- There are segment file changes on a primary shard refresh.

> - Replica shards are being recovered from primary shard using peer recovery.

Reviewer 3: During peer recovery. 1) Replica shard recovery, 2) Shard relocations (explicit allocation using move allocation command or automatic shard re-balancing).

# Segment replication

With segment replication, segment files are copied across shards instead of documents being indexed on each shard copy. This improves indexing throughput and lowers resource utilization at the expense of increased network utilization.

## Use cases

- Users who have high write loads but do not have high search requirements and are comfortable with longer refresh times.

> - Users with very high loads who want to add new nodes, as you do not need to index all nodes when adding a new node to the cluster.

Reviewer 4: I think use cases should be more clear to users. I think Satish can help on defining the use cases. I think Log Analytics use case is the most common use case for SegRep

> This is the first step in a series of features designed to decouple reads and writes in order to lower compute costs.

Reviewer 4: This paragraph can be moved the the first section, since it talking about SegRep overview, not related to the use cases.

## Segment replication configuration

To enable the segment replication type, reference the steps below.

> ### Enabling the feature flag

Reviewer 4: We are going to remove the feature flag as part of GA, so you need to remove it from documentation

There are several methods for enabling segment replication, depending on the install type. You will also need to set the replication strategy to `SEGMENT` when creating the index.

### Enable on a node using a tarball install

The flag is toggled using a new jvm parameter that is set either in `OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS` or in config/jvm.options.

1. Option 1: Update config/jvm.options by adding the following line:

    ````json
    -Dopensearch.experimental.feature.replication_type.enabled=true
    ````

1. Option 2: Use the `OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS` environment variable:

    ````json
    export OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS="-Dopensearch.experimental.feature.replication_type.enabled=true"
    ````
1. Option 3: Add the request body parameter when creating an index.

### Enable with Docker containers

If you're running Docker, add the following line to docker-compose.yml underneath the `opensearch-node` and `environment` section:

````json
OPENSEARCH_JAVA_OPTS="-Dopensearch.experimental.feature.replication_type.enabled=true" # Enables segment replication
````

> ### Setting the replication strategy on the index

Reviewer 4: users only need this setting to enable SegRep, all the above should be removed.

To set the replication strategy to segment replication, create an index with replication.type set to `SEGMENT`:

````json
PUT /my-index1
{
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "replication.type": "SEGMENT" 
    }
  }
}
````

## Further resources regarding segment replication

> 1. [Known issues](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/2194).

Reviewer 4: This is not valid any more. may be you can replace it with:
To track future enhacements on the Segment replication post GA: https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/99

1. [Segment replication blog post](https://github.com/opensearch-project/project-website/pull/1504/files).

> ## Benchmarking

Reviewer 4: May be we need to be on sync with the Benchmarking section on the blog post

During experimental testing, our experimental release users have reported up to 40% higher throughput with segment replication than with document replication for the same cluster setup.

Additionally, the following benchmarks were collected with [OpenSearch-benchmark](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark) using the [`stackoverflow`](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/stackoverflow/stackoverflow) and [`nyc_taxi`](https://github.com/topics/nyc-taxi-dataset) datasets.  

Your results may vary based on cluster topology, hardware used, shard count, and merge settings. 
{: .note }

> ## Known limitations

Reviewer 4: And this should on sync with "Other considerations" section in the blog post

Reviewer 4: Read after write guarantees is missing

1. Enabling segment replication for an existing index requires [reindexing](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/3685).
1. Rolling upgrades are currently not supported. Full cluster restarts are required when upgrading indexes using segment replication. [Issue 3881](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/3881).
1. [Cross-cluster replication](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/4090) does not currently use segment replication to copy between clusters.
1. Increased network congestion on primary shards. [Issue - Optimize network bandwidth on primary shards](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/4245).

> 1. Shard allocation algorithms have not been updated to evenly spread primary shards across nodes.

Reviewer 4: This is already fixed

> 1. Integration with remote-backed storage as the source of replication is [currently unsupported](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/4448).

Reviewer 4: This is not a limitation, it's more of enhancement.

With segment replication, segment files are copied across shards instead of documents being indexed on each shard copy. This improves indexing throughput and lowers resource utilization at the expense of increased network utilization.

When the primary shard sends a checkpoint to replica shards on a refresh, a new segment replication event is triggered on replica shards. This happens when:

- A new replica shard is added to a cluster.
- There are segment file changes on a primary shard refresh.

> - Replica shards are being recovered from primary shard using peer recovery.

Reviewer 3: - During peer recovery. 1) Replica shard recovery, 2) Shard relocations (explicit move allocation command or shard re-balancing).

}
````

> In segment replication, the primary shard is usually generating more network traffic than the replicas because it's copying all segment files to the replicas. Thus, it's essential to distribute primary shards equally between the nodes. To ensure equal or near-equal number of primary shards on each node, set the dynamic `cluster.routing.allocation.balance.prefer_primary` setting to `true`. For more information, see [Cluster settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-settings/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In segment replication, the primary shard is usually generating more network traffic than the replicas as it copy segment files to the replicas. Thus, it's beneficial to distribute primary shards equally between the nodes. To ensure balanced primary shard distribution, set the dynamic `cluster.routing.allocation.balance.prefer_primary` setting to `true`. For more information, see [Cluster settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/cluster-api/cluster-settings/).
```

Reviewer 3: CC @mch2 for another review
